# Introduction
The word 'algorithm' comes from 'al-Khwarizmi', named after a Persian scholar who lived around year 800.

Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA) is a fundamental part of Computer Science that teaches you how to think and solve complex problems systematically.

Using the right data structure and algorithm makes your program run faster, especially when working with lots of data.

## DSA
Data Structures is about how data can be stored in different structures.

## Algorithms
Algorithms is about how to solve different problems, often by searching through and manipulating data structures.

## Complexity (effective and efficient DSA)

Time Complexity: Time complexity is used to measure the amount of time required to execute the code.

Space Complexity: Space complexity means the amount of space required to execute successfully the functionalities of the code. 

## DSA Example (Ex Family tree)

* If we want to store data about people we are related to, we use a family tree as the data structure.
* Data structures are essential ingredients in creating fast and powerful algorithms. They help in managing and organizing data, reduce complexity, and increase efficiency.

## Types of data stracture

* Primitive Data Structures are basic data structures provided by programming languages to represent single values, such as integers, floating-point numbers, characters, and booleans.

* Abstract Data Structures are higher-level data structures that are built using primitive data types and provide more complex and specialized operations. Some common examples of abstract data structures include arrays, linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, and graphs.

## Algorithms Example (Ex Cooking recipe )

* An algorithm is a set of step-by-step instructions to solve a given problem or achieve a specific goal.
* instead of food ingredients, an algorithm uses data structures.

|   Term                            |   Description                                  |                        
| -------------                     |:-----------------------------------------------|    
| Algorithm                         | A set of step-by-step instructions to solve a specific problem.        
| Data Structure                    | A way of organizing data so it can be used efficiently. Common data structures include arrays, linked lists, and binary trees.|                
| Space Complexity                        | A measure of the amount of memory an algorithm uses, depending on the amount of data the algorithm is working on. |                   
| Big O Notation                     | A mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity. Used in this tutorial to describe the time complexity of an algorithm.|
| Recursion                           |  A programming technique where a function calls itself.
| Divide and Conquer                  |  A method of solving complex problems by breaking them into smaller, more manageable sub-problems, solving the sub-problems, and combining the solutions. Recursion is often used when using this method in an algorithm.|
| Brute Force                          | A simple and straight forward way an algorithm can work by simply trying all possible solutions and then choosing the best one.|    

	
